---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-08-24
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2018-08-24
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2018-08-24

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2018Aug/0014.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/08/24-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rob Sanderson, Simon Steyskal, David Newbury, Adam Soroka, Gregg Kellogg, Harold Solbrig, Benjamin Young, Ivan Herman, Tim Cole, David Lehn

**Regrets:** Dave Longley

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** David Newbury, Rob Sanderson

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Minutes approval
{: #section1}

> **Proposed resolution: Approve minutes of previous call https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-08-17-json-ld** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +0

> *David Newbury:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Approve minutes of previous call https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-08-17-json-ld***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Announcements
{: #section2}

**Rob Sanderson:** Announcements:  regular TPAC announcements  
… any others?  

**Adam Soroka:** If you're from an institution with a travel program, the rates from your institution may be better.  Not a critique of the committee, but a good thing to see  

**Benjamin Young:** the rooms in the block are already gone, anyway  

**Harold Solbrig:** Johns Hopkins is in the process of buying a membership, so he's trying to join again.  

**Rob Sanderson:** If it takes a while, we can invite you as an expert  
… no need for introductions  

### 3. Issues
{: #section3}

#### 3.1. Warn or error on non-keyword string with @?
{: #section3-1}

**Rob Sanderson:** first issue, should we warn or error on non-keywords that start with @?  

> *Rob Sanderson:* link:  [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/16](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/16)

**Gregg Kellogg:** this raises a compatibility issue with 1.0, warning against the use but treating it like any other aliased term  
… but there's a problem with schema.org example, that hasn't been fixed, though benjamin has put a pull request there for it, where it was using @url where they meant @id, and since they're using @vocab,it did not do what was expected  
… and there's no way to know that in a standards-compliant way  
… should we come down on this and be firm about not using @words?  We can't generate warnings now, but...we could encourage implementations to do so  
… pushback on complicating the project for a development concern  
… consensus may be won't-fix  

**Ivan Herman:** there was a bug in the data or the vocabulary...we can't handle all the bugs.  The nature is that if you do what they did, the rubbish you produce is a URL and we can't stop that.  
… that's life.  
… why would we have to add a feature to solve this?  

**Benjamin Young:** it looks like just a typo, and get confused that Urls are IDs...from a syntax standpoint, if we're not reserving, then we're limiting our forward compatibility.  
… if we just let it exist, it becomes a broken link, but it will limit our options in the future  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* For example, we’re using @none in maps in 1.1

**Harold Solbrig:** We were talking about a comment tag before...that opens us up to non-standard processing.  
… if we don't say anything about them, we're going to allow them to add special processing instructions as they feel  

> *Simon Steyskal:* [https://schema.org/ItemList#ItemList-gen-306](https://schema.org/ItemList#ItemList-gen-306)

**Simon Steyskal:** I was going to say that in this example, there's less about wanting to say @id, but just a copy-paste error  
… they have a url, but without the @, and they copy/pasted it wrongly  

**Adam Soroka:** I agree with benjamin and harold's point...the ticket was described as dev vs. production...I'm not very happy about that characterization.  It's also my data vs. data from the world.  
… that is not to claim I've seen a lot of that, but I don't think that it's dev/prod, but it's also provenance.  How accepting do you have to be of other's messes?  Postal's law is important here, and we want to be accepting  
… throwing an error could make that hard, but an warning would be very helpful.  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to ajs6f

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

**Adam Soroka:** it may be hard, but there may be a middle road where we add non-normative language and you could admit warnings as being useful...  

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1 to ajs6f

**Rob Sanderson:** I wanted to ask about webIDL and warnings...surely this must have come up in other WGs?  
… is there a precedents?  
… warnings have never come up?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** there are two avenues: promises work or they don't.  IN my use, I add warnings to a logger.  
… I think that it would be good to add a note that implementations should inform seeing something that might be a problem, but we can't standardize things like that, and it would be optional.  
… something like that might induce developers to provide extra info in the APIs  
… Second things:  We treat things that look like keywords differently in the body then we do in the context.  
… we had this problem in 1.0, and we weren't checking for extra terms, or in containers, and we've updated that now, and we could do more  
… so adding @comment in a context would context would error, but in a doc would cause it to be ignored unless there's a default vocab  
… but the rules do vary between the body and doc  

**Harold Solbrig:** with respect to Adam's comment, to say something in the doc non-normative telling users that some processors may not agree with the use of other tokens for warnings  
… so the absence of statement is an excuse to go wild  

**Tim Cole:** I think we want to keep it simple, and the useful language is that if you do this, add @keys, then the results are unpredictable.  
… implementers can do what they want, so don't do it  
… non-normative  

**David Newbury:** forward compatibility is a good reason not to do this  

> **Proposed resolution: Add a non-normative note to -api to recommend exposing warnings when @ symbols are used for tokens other than keywords** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *David Newbury:* +1

> *David Newbury:* -q

> *David Newbury:* +1

**Gregg Kellogg:** I don't agree with this--it's predictable, and if you have a keyword that's mapped one way or the other, it's predictable, and we should check or add tests for that  

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

**Gregg Kellogg:** but the behavior of a processor should be predictable  

**Rob Sanderson:** if you're in a single processor mode, it must be predictable.  I think the unpredictable might be between versions  
… and you wouldn't know if you didn't keep up  

**Adam Soroka:** sidebar, part of what that's tricky is that we're on the verge of metadata about processing...right ow we don't have a way to admit it.  Not a good time to think hard about it, but if things like this pile up, we might need to come back to this  

> ***Resolution #2: Add a non-normative note to -api to recommend exposing warnings when @ symbols are used for tokens other than keywords***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

**Rob Sanderson:** leave this one open, flag it as editorial?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** leave it open, change the tags  

**Rob Sanderson:** onto the next one  

#### 3.2. Revisit empty string as term
{: #section3-2}

> *Rob Sanderson:* link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/12](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/12)

**Gregg Kellogg:** 1.0 had a restriction on the use of the empty string as a key, since PHP didn't handle it well  
… however, since JSON-LD tries to process JSON, and JSON does not restrict empty string keys, not doing this is a hole  
… but the sentiments that have been expressed are around the lack of use case for it  
… not worth the change without a use case  

**Rob Sanderson:** this came up about languages, which we changed with @none, but this would have been an alternate solution  
… could have been a use case  
… id as empty string, or even worse a type...it seems dangerous, unless there's a good use case, since it could be very, very confusing  
… anyone?  

> **Proposed resolution: close #12 won't fix, no use case and introduces confusion rather than value** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *David Newbury:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +!

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: close #12 won't fix, no use case and introduces confusion rather than value***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

> *David I. Lehn:* +1 but it makes me sad to limit the ability to write obfuscated json-ld!

#### 3.3. Initial context
{: #section3-3}

> *Rob Sanderson:* link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/44](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/44)

**Rob Sanderson:** #44.  Should we have an initial context, like RDFa, where the common terms are defined  

> *Rob Sanderson:* RDFA initial context: [https://www.w3.org/2011/rdfa-context/rdfa-1.1](https://www.w3.org/2011/rdfa-context/rdfa-1.1)

**Rob Sanderson:** like xsd or rdf.  Precedent in RDFa  
… here are a bunch of prefixes that are baked in  
… some discussion very early on in JSON-LD, when it was rejected without prejudice due to lack of usecase  

**Ivan Herman:** two things: I did put in the RDFa, but I don't think we should take everything that's there.  Very RDF oriented, and JSON-world may not need all of that  
… the original reason was around documentation  
… why do we need yet another thing, when we can use existing terms from RDF or DC  
… that's a valid thing, but then you have to go to the hassle to add something to the context  
… for the very wildly used one, it would make the life of many people easier  

**Adam Soroka:** I see the value in the human sense, not an incentive to best practice--but it's a best-practice, not something that...I'd have to think about it harder, but I'd be concerned about mapping things into there  
… would be so generic that people who need to override them would be annoyed.  
… the value may be diluted  
… I think we can get a lot of the benefit through non-normative best practices  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* See [https://prefix.cc/about/json-ld](https://prefix.cc/about/json-ld)

**Benjamin Young:** I'm concerned about the risk of this one  
… best practices may be the best way to do it  
… the RDFa one leans on the fact that they're just defining prefixes  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to bigbluehat and ajs6f

**Benjamin Young:** but in JSON-LD world, that makes it weird since you don't have to use namespaced predicates, schema:name as the default, since nobody is going to type that.  
… afraid for strange JSON, and fighting the default  
… why is this @thing here anyway...  
… now we've polluted the raw JSON namespace, making everything annotation like  

**Rob Sanderson:** I also wanted to talk about ID and TYPE, one is that unless you're constrained, @id to id, @type to type...and then we're stepping into the data level.  Also nervous.  
… as a difference with RDFa, because you can pull in multiple contexts, it's trivial to come up with a good default context, perhaps us  
… a best-practice context, and that could get most of the benefit, and save people a lot of time without making it a requiremetns  

> *Adam Soroka:* +1 to making a default context available without requiring it

**David Newbury:** from my perspective the default context feels like magic. When trying to explain it's easy to say that they're the ones defined in the context  
… it's harder to say the terms are in the context, other than the ones defined over there  
… context like things should be contexts :)  

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* Again, see [https://prefix.cc/context](https://prefix.cc/context)

**Harold Solbrig:** I was going to ask what prevented people from coming up with fragments, and we could consider publishing a context in a well-known location.  No need to go beyond that  

**Ivan Herman:** I didn't even consider an initial context for terms.  My initial idea was only for prefixes  
… so people could just use DC terms, I realize namespaces can be seen as heresy, but it makes it easier for people.  Having a default would be a good idea  
… I don't know who did it, but there's a JSON-LD context that mimics the RDFa context  

> *David Newbury:* gkellogg: we saw a lot of prefixes in the RDFa world that seemed like the prefix was a scheme

> *David Newbury:* ...in JSON-LD the namespace is rarely used--only used in automatic prefixes when converting from another RDF.

> *David Newbury:* ...the general use is terms without namespaces.  It's more common in contexts for common prefixes like RDFS or XSDS

**Ivan Herman:** jsonLD has a bunch of affordances for this already  

**Rob Sanderson:** one thing we'll get to is importing contexts in a circular context  
… if we have a normative context, and if that imports any other contexts, that could cause issues  
… a normative context could help prevent that  
… not today's issue, but it could help.  

**Benjamin Young:** maybe a best-practices to indicate what the common prefixes?  This could be useful, and others others than Gregg could do  

**Tim Cole:** One advantage of the context built-in to avoid the weakness of prefixes, where people who use the common one, but not the right common one.  It doesn't look like they're talking together.  
… having a nice context invents many, many URLs for RDF.  
… best practices help, but people don't always do ti.  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* If context is in the remote contexts array, a recursive context inclusion error has been detected and processing is aborted; otherwise, add context to remote contexts.

> *Ivan Herman:* Just for the minutes: [https://www.w3.org/2013/json-ld-context/rdfa11](https://www.w3.org/2013/json-ld-context/rdfa11) is the list of RDFa prefixes...

**Gregg Kellogg:** regarding the danger of circular contexts, there's language around that  
… and raises an error  
… we can catch it, but there may be other uses  
… you're not in the chain of context processing  
… I don't think we can get run-awats here  
… One thing that there was an attack vector where you were given a context that is auto-generated, that is automatically generated to create another...and then you can get a run-away, but by exploiting a malefactor giving you a context that causes a stack-overflow  
… there are suggestions, the JS and python can deal with it, as does the ruby, but we should add language that deals with stacks of contexts  

> **Proposed resolution: Close syntax/#14 won't fix, and open a new issue for a suggested best practice context** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Ivan Herman:* +0.99999

> *David Newbury:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

**Adam Soroka:** we've had two ideas, the proposal, and also the idea to have a non-normative but provide a suggested default context  

> *Tim Cole:* +0.5

**Adam Soroka:** do we have machinery to emit that as a product out of the working group--put it up at an address?  Yes, we can  

**Rob Sanderson:** we can do that  

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> ***Resolution #4: Close syntax/#14 won't fix, and open a new issue for a suggested best practice context***
{: #resolution4 .resolution}

**Rob Sanderson:** we're at the end of the agenda.  Any other business?  

### 4. AOB
{: #section4}

**David I. Lehn:** a use case for empty terms.  A theory to see if you could do compression on JSON-LD  
… you could compress and decompress, and it would save a character.  
… silly  
… but a use case.  

**Rob Sanderson:** I personally think, while clever, compression over the document might be a better idea  

#### 4.1. Process
{: #section4-1}

**Rob Sanderson:** my question: is the process working?  3 issues a call  
… people are participating, work continues, but is everyone else feeling OK with it?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think that the rate that issues are added looks like a bell-shaped curve, and I don't know where we are, and we may still be rising, and I'm responsible for raising thorny things...  
… but I think that if we're getting behind, is getting more effective use of the issue list leading to shorten some of the discussion might be a way to deal with it if we feel pressue  

**Benjamin Young:** I've been working on signposting between this and the community list, and I'd love help with that  
… more people should be in this room, or watching, we're a small group, but more interest would be good  
… help would be good.  Ping me.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** if you search for JSON-LD 1.1, and you're taken to the site, not w3c.  We should point those  

**Ivan Herman:** there have been issues in the past few weeks where the impression tat there was a consensus on Github.  Perhaps an email proposal, with 4-5 days of response?  We're fine, but more will come and the pace may be too slow  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1 to ivan

**Ivan Herman:** 3 a day may not be a good pace  
… if we an get rid of trivial issues we already agree with, and focus on thorny ones on the call  

> *Benjamin Young:* +1 to "obvious consensus" issues being closed without call time or with a "any objections to closing the following N issues"?

**Rob Sanderson:** thanks, everyone, and see you next week  

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Approve minutes of previous call https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-08-17-json-ld
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): Add a non-normative note to -api to recommend exposing warnings when @ symbols are used for tokens other than keywords
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): close #12 won't fix, no use case and introduces confusion rather than value
* [Resolution #4](#resolution4): Close syntax/#14 won't fix, and open a new issue for a suggested best practice context
