---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-07-13
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2018-07-13
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2018-07-13

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2018Jul/0010.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/07/13-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rob Sanderson, David Newbury, Simon Steyskal, Tim Cole, Benjamin Young, Gregg Kellogg, Adam Soroka, Jeff Mixter, Harold Solbrig, David Lehn

**Regrets:** Ivan Herman

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Benjamin Young, Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** Tim Cole

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Minutes from 6 July
{: #section1}

> **Proposed resolution: Approve minutes: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2018Jul/0010.html** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Approve minutes: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2018Jul/0010.html***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Announcements/Reminders?
{: #section2}

**Benjamin Young:** Any announcements or reminders  
… TPAC discount ends at the end of July for registration  
… hotel discounted rates are first come first serve  

**Adam:** what was TPAC rate?  

**Rob Sanderson:** rate is 110 Euros per day (including VAT)  

**Jeff Mixter:** I was on last call but not listed in minutes  

**Benjamin Young:** will fix  

**Benjamin Young:** if you are on the nickname list, it is sufficient to just do present+  
… if not in nickname list, then need to present+ full_name  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/blob/master/assets/nicknames.json](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/blob/master/assets/nicknames.json)

**Rob Sanderson:** either do pull request or ping Rob, Ben, or Ivan to add you, if not already in the nickname list  

**Rob Sanderson:** no need for introductions this week  

### 3. Discussion of Guiding Principles
{: #section3}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/pull/6](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/pull/6)

**Rob Sanderson:** not absolute rules but things we think are useful / important  
… we will keep walking our way down the document today, hopefully getting through the remaining issues today.  

> *Rob Sanderson:* rendered: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/blob/e07e37d59b1df9d04d8ca389b31d118cd85832ea/WorkMode/guiding_principles.md](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/blob/e07e37d59b1df9d04d8ca389b31d118cd85832ea/WorkMode/guiding_principles.md)

**Rob Sanderson:** starting with first item starting 'Proposed:...  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/blob/e07e37d59b1df9d04d8ca389b31d118cd85832ea/WorkMode/guiding_principles.md#proposed-simplicity-is-determined-by-end-users-not-library-implementers](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/blob/e07e37d59b1df9d04d8ca389b31d118cd85832ea/WorkMode/guiding_principles.md#proposed-simplicity-is-determined-by-end-users-not-library-implementers)

**Rob Sanderson:** related to previous, but also focused on helping developers generally  
… so if you are a Webmaster you determine what simpler more than the spec writers  

**Gregg Kellogg:** this is how we did it for json-ld 1.0  
… we have gotten feedback on the complexity of the algos, but this is result of making it easier for end-users  

**Adam Soroka:** 'usability' may be a little more on point than simplicity  
… could we go to usability or ease of use to make principle more pointed. Agree with main point.  

**Rob Sanderson:** should we replace simple with usable above as well?  

**Adam Soroka:** I would not suggest doing that now, because this current principle focuses on the audience at hand  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to adam

**David Newbury:** going back to question last week - are data producers different than data consumers?  

**Rob Sanderson:** I think there is an additional distinction between audience using data as JSON and audience using data as RDF  
… given target audience is software developers generally  
… could be explicitly that we mean both Web developers and developers that work more broadly  
… is it easy for developers who have RDF to use vs. an IIIF developer who thinks of it as JSON (RDF is a side-effect)  

**David Newbury:** In IIIF we've worked on issues like do we allow arrays or just an object  
… do we make it simple to make appropriate documents, even if difficult consume  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://www.w3.org/TR/html-design-principles/#priority-of-constituencies](https://www.w3.org/TR/html-design-principles/#priority-of-constituencies)

**David Newbury:** or do we make it easier to consume and harder to produce  

**Benjamin Young:** what to connect to HTML design principles  
… this prioritize groups in a fashion similar to what Rob mentioned  

> ***Action #1: Add priority of constituencies to guiding principles doc***
{: #action1 .action}

> ***Action #2: add Jeff Mixter (jeff_mixter) to last weeks present list in the minutes***
{: #action2 .action}

**Adam Soroka:** almost no one wants to do RDF , or even JSON  
… they want to focus on their business. JSON (or RDF) is a means to an end  

> *Benjamin Young:* +1 to ajs6f's conjecture that devs don't "want" formats, they want things to work / be done (etc)

**Adam Soroka:** so if we distinguish between consumers and producers we should prioritize consumers  

**Rob Sanderson:** I want to assert that we should not be opiniated about JSON patterns  
… so for example in IIIF if there can ever be multiple values it's always an array. But this is not the only pattern.  
… So, for example schema.org does not do it this way - allows strings and arrays as object for a given property  

> *Adam Soroka:* +1 to JSON pattern agnosticism

**Rob Sanderson:** this puts the oneous back on the context designer for a particular community  

**David Newbury:** The HTML design principles expresses exactly what I want to get at  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/blob/e07e37d59b1df9d04d8ca389b31d118cd85832ea/WorkMode/guiding_principles.md#proposed-provide-on-ramps](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/blob/e07e37d59b1df9d04d8ca389b31d118cd85832ea/WorkMode/guiding_principles.md#proposed-provide-on-ramps)

**Rob Sanderson:** next principle is to provide on-ramps (important in LA)  
… allows features to be incrementally  

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

**Rob Sanderson:** not sure how often it comes up, but it does help with managing complexity  

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

**David Newbury:** Where this tends to come is up is in sense that complicated patterns build on simple ones  

> *Rob Sanderson:* And +1 to workergnome

**David Newbury:** this can make the complex patterns a little more complex (essentially for backward compatibility)  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/blob/e07e37d59b1df9d04d8ca389b31d118cd85832ea/WorkMode/guiding_principles.md#proposed-define-success-not-failure](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/blob/e07e37d59b1df9d04d8ca389b31d118cd85832ea/WorkMode/guiding_principles.md#proposed-define-success-not-failure)

**Rob Sanderson:** next - define success, not failure  
… means specify conformance rather than non conformance  
… the few NOT constraints the easier our lives will be in the future and the easier to add extensions  

**Gregg Kellogg:** this overlaps with 1.0 decisions that came back to bite us  
… for example we decided to be more perscriptive in the context, but we weren't perscriptive enough about @ signs etc.  
… when we later wanted to add type containers, because we had not identified the list of possible containers  
… we had to add the @id  
… if we had avoided saying that containers had to be one of those listed, it would have been easier  

**Simon Steyskal:** not entire clear what we're trying to do. Is it like closed vs. open world? or what is the difference?  

**Rob Sanderson:** yes, the open vs. closed world is exactly on point  
… if we are silent then you are not out of conformance if you add that feature on your own  
… it remains undefined, but it is avoids non-conformance  
… like being rigorous with what you send, not what you get  
… but on the flip side of being overly prescriptive on 1.0, @type does constrain  

**Gregg Kellogg:** when looking schema.org examples, I came across an example that used @Url where @id was clearly meant  

> *Rob Sanderson:* Also there's a proposal for @label as thinking the @ is magical

**Gregg Kellogg:** 1.0 processor is okay with this, although would have been nice if we had been more prescriptive in this case  

> *Rob Sanderson:* @type as @container:@set issue:  [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/34](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/34)

> *Rob Sanderson:* @label for rdfs:label issue: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/6](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/6)

**Rob Sanderson:** next, follow existing standards and best practices where possible  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/blob/e07e37d59b1df9d04d8ca389b31d118cd85832ea/WorkMode/guiding_principles.md#proposed-follow-existing-standards-and-best-practices-where-possible-and-where-they-do-not-conflict-with-other-principles](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/blob/e07e37d59b1df9d04d8ca389b31d118cd85832ea/WorkMode/guiding_principles.md#proposed-follow-existing-standards-and-best-practices-where-possible-and-where-they-do-not-conflict-with-other-principles)

**Rob Sanderson:** allows us to ignore a standard that has gone bad, but we should not reinvent  

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *David Newbury:* +1

**Rob Sanderson:** between new and reuse, pick reuse unless reuse creates a problem  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/blob/e07e37d59b1df9d04d8ca389b31d118cd85832ea/WorkMode/guiding_principles.md#proposed-the-underlying-data-model-is-rdf](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/blob/e07e37d59b1df9d04d8ca389b31d118cd85832ea/WorkMode/guiding_principles.md#proposed-the-underlying-data-model-is-rdf)

**Rob Sanderson:** last, the underlying data model is RDF - this may be controversial and we may decide to leave off  
… Manu has already objected, noting that 1.0 used generic graph set data model (rather than including RDF constraints on graph model)  
… so this also has to do with round-tripping discussion  
… if we stay with RDF, we then would defer non-RDF compatible features to future  
… for example, assuming RDF, would mean not allowing blanknodes as predicate, direction of strings  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Manu is on record that json-ld data model is not same as RDF  
… allowing blanknodes as predicates allows creating new identifiers (ala CURIE).  

> *Benjamin Young:* here's our current "Relationship to RDF" section [https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-syntax/#relationship-to-rdf](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-syntax/#relationship-to-rdf)

**Gregg Kellogg:** this does not seem a very useful use case, so the WG could decide that this is an obsolete pattern  
… the other use case is data indexing, e.g., data value as key - when json-ld is compacted value becomes subject...  
… this is an area of json-ld where it is difficult to create a round trip  
… went back and looked at list of list issue history, we abandoned because we didn't have a use case and at time looked not to be worth it  
… but perhaps we should revisit if we have a use case now  
… so the main issue right now seems to be the `@data` issue  
… regarding where RDF might go, we probably do not want to get ahead of RDF  
… so that we could defer to future.  

**Jeff Mixter:** from a practical standpoint when we do ingest linked data, we tend to normalize to triples to facilitate ingest into triple store or process  
… so if json-ld didn't align with RDF might cause problems  
… in library community there is a growing interest in RDF (BibFrame, etc.) so not being able to stay consistent would be a problem  

**David Newbury:** agree with Jeff, if we really were doing a json serialization of graph would look significantly different  

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

**David Newbury:** since we are already 95% with RDF, we really should go whole hug and be 100%  

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

**Harold Solbrig:** this proposal is slightly confusing, seem to be two possible understandings  
… one is RDF needs to be able to represent everything we say with json-ld  
… the other interpretation is json-ld needs to be able say everything you can say in RDF.  
… the second interpretation may not be all that useful for our users  

**Rob Sanderson:** I agree previous speakers, so as a way forward, can we call out when there's a 1.0 non-RDF feature  
… we have to stay backward compatible, but we can make it very obvious why not to use that feature  
… and for any new features we don't add anything to 1.1 that would be non-RDF  
… so the principle becomes a gating one rather than normative. What features should we not add  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to understanding costs of adding / not adding

**Benjamin Young:** may also want to consider the cost of adding / not adding  
… we also want to understand who's using parts of 1.0 that are not expressible in RDF  
… we also want to be aware how json developers are using json-ld without caring about RDF  
… want avoid letting RDF data model become our albatross  
… practically we'll have to weigh the trade-offs and do the best we can  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 as well

**Rob Sanderson:** Are there changes to text that would make this last principle clearer?  
… something that would sound less like we want to stop the trains  

**Gregg Kellogg:** to drive this (it will be contentious) should we create a proposal for the WG to adopt as a way of making clear what we're doing  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to being clear about rdf 1.1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1 for rdf 1.1

**Gregg Kellogg:** e.g., make clear features from 1.0 that we might deprecate  
… alternatively we could propose that the underlying data model is not RDF as a way to provoke feedback  
… we need to put stakes in the ground and promote them to get healthy feedback  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1!

**Harold Solbrig:** following-up it rolls back to a fundamental issue that we need to be able to speak to. We used to say its  
… a RDF serialization format. But we need a better answer to what is json-ld?  

**Rob Sanderson:** defer process items on agenda to next week  
… Rob will revise PR and tag all of us as reviewer  
… if discussion and changes are okay with you, then ignore, otherwise comment  
… we need to find happy medium between it's just a graph and it's rdf  

> *Benjamin Young:* +1 to merging with review on github

**Rob Sanderson:** do we need a resolution or will we make do with gitHub review  

**Benjamin Young:** will be in touch about upcoming calls  

> *Tim Cole:* adjourn

> ***Action #3: Rob to merge changes from the discussion into guiding principles doc***
{: #action3 .action}

> *Rob Sanderson:* Aye

---


### 4. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Approve minutes: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2018Jul/0010.html

### 5. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): Add priority of constituencies to guiding principles doc
* [Action #2](#action2): add Jeff Mixter (jeff_mixter) to last weeks present list in the minutes
* [Action #3](#action3): Rob to merge changes from the discussion into guiding principles doc