---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-11-01
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-11-01
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-11-01-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-11-01",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-11-01",
            "endDate": "2019-11-01",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Benjamin Young"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Markus Sabadello"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2019-11-01

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Oct/0013.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/11/01-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rob Sanderson, Ivan Herman, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Dave Longley, Gregg Kellogg, Benjamin Young, David I. Lehn

**Regrets:** Jeff Mixter

**Guests:** Ted Thibodeau Jr, Markus Sabadello

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** Pierre-Antoine Champin

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Approve minutes of previous call:
{: #section1}

> **Proposed resolution: Approve minutes of previous call: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-25-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-25-json-ld)** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Approve minutes of previous call: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-25-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-25-json-ld)***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

**Rob Sanderson:** welcome to markus_sabadello and TallTed from the DID WG  
… let's have a round of introduction  
… I'm co-chair of this WG, previous chair of the Annotation WG, where we used JSON-LD  

**Ivan Herman:** staff contact on both group, everyone knows me  

**Dave Longley:** also a member of both groups  

**Gregg Kellogg:** JSON-LD editor, I was at the last DID F2F  

**Markus Sabadello:** founder of a startup in Vienna, co-editor of the DID specification  
… not an expert in JSON-LD, but have used it in several projects in the past  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr:** OpenLink software since 2000, and W3C since 2001  

**Benjamin Young:** co-chair of the JSON-LD WG, and previously of the Annotation WG  
… lurked in the DID CG previously  

### 2. Announcements?
{: #section2}

**Ivan Herman:** next week, back to usual time in Europe  

### 3. Media Types for JSON-LD
{: #section3}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/287](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/287)

> *Ivan Herman:* See [related DID issue](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/1)

**Rob Sanderson:** the DID WG is looking for how to have a media-type, with a specific file extension  
… which would be recognized as a subtype of JSON-LD  
… What would happen with multiple + signs, like application/did+ld+json ?  
… Or should it be application/did+jsonld  
… Or could an extension be registered with a *profile* of application/ld+json?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** did anyone consider application/did-ld+json? Does it satisfy any of the concern?  

**Ivan Herman:** that was one of the options.  

**Markus Sabadello:** we want a specific mime-type, in order to have a file extension,  
… and also to be able to specify the semantics of fragments in our format.  
… Problem seems to be that we are defining a subtype of a subtype.  

> *Dave Longley:* potential options: application/did-ld+json, application/did+ld+json application/ld+json;profile=URI, application/did+jsonld, application/did+json

**Markus Sabadello:** The hyphen or the multiple-plus solutions would work I think.  

**Rob Sanderson:** about the extension, there was a discussion in the Annotation WG;  
… (-> see also a separate action [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/123](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/123) )  
… we checked with IETF and IANA (Mark Nottigham).  
… We asked if a file extension could be registered with a profile parameter,  
… without a new media-type.  
… The answer was yes, provided that the "media-type owner" acknowledge it.  
… In this case, the "media-type owner" is us (the JSON-LD WG).  
… To me, the profile pattern is the preferable way. We should explore this first.  

> *Rob Sanderson:* It would look like: `application/ld+json;profile="https://w3.org/ns/did"` (or whatever URI)

> *Rob Sanderson:* Profile parameter: [https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/#iana-considerations](https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/#iana-considerations)

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6906](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6906) - The 'profile' Link Relation Type

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7284](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7284) - The Profile URI Registry RFC

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://www.iana.org/assignments/profile-uris/profile-uris.xhtml](https://www.iana.org/assignments/profile-uris/profile-uris.xhtml) - Profile URI registry:

**Ted Thibodeau Jr:** Can anyone point to a documentation of the profile suffix on mime-types?  
… We have been discussing the "+" solution, because it allows a fallback.  
… But according to the RFC, only the final + matters for this fallback mechanism.  
… But we hope that implementations consider all + signs,  
… otherwise, application/did+ld+json would fallback directly to JSON,  
… which is not ideal.  
… I would suggest that application/jsonld be declared, as an "alias" to application/ld+json,  
… i.e. having the same file extension.  

> *Ivan Herman:* See [reference to the '+' descriptions](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6838#section-4.2.8)

**Dave Longley:** the JSON-LD should advertise the possibility to associate file extensions to profiles,  
… but the tooling is missing for properly working with the profile approach. (e.g., [npm mime package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mime))  

**Markus Sabadello:** about the fragments,  
… the way we are using the fragments in DID should be compatible with the way they are used in JSON-LD,  
… so the fallback mentioned above should work to some extent.  
… A pure JSON-LD tool should be able to process the fragments in a DID document.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 we absolutely want it to process the fragment the same way

**Ivan Herman:** I don't think the fragment ID is defined for the JSON format, is there one for JSON-LD?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think we say they have the same semantics as in RDF.  

> "Fragment identifiers used with application/ld+json are treated as in RDF syntaxes, as per RDF 1.1 Concepts and Abstract Syntax [RDF11-CONCEPTS]."

**Benjamin Young:** JSON does not have fragment identifiers.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** is there inheritability of fragment identifiers across media-types?  
… It would be logical.  

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr:* application/did-ld+json would need to echo much of application/ld+json

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr:* application/did+ld+json could inherit *if* MIME RFC made *all* + important

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr:* application/did+jsonld would inherit/fallback to application/jsonld

**Rob Sanderson:** as TallTed pointed out, there is some time pressure.  
… We are close to recommendation.  
… Would some of the options require a normative change in JSON-LD?  
… Consensus seems to be that we should say, in the IANA section,  
… that profile IRIs can be associated to new file extensions.  
… did[+-]ld+json would not require any change.  
… did+jsonld would require a change.  
… Let's focus on the options requiring some change.  

**Dave Longley:** could the application/ld+json registration possibly talk about additional '+'s? or would that be too out of scope?

**Ted Thibodeau Jr:** application/jsonld parallel to application/ld+json with the latter preferred for basic JSON-LD would work ... only derivatives of JSON-LD (like DID) would use the former ... but maybe did-ld should be considered as parallel to ld as derivatives of JSON

**Ivan Herman:** the registration of did+ld+json only concerns the DID WG, won't affect the JSON-LD WG.  
… re: did-ld+json, my impression is that this mime-type would be considered independent from ld+json  
… The reason why it came up, if I'm correct, was to define the semantics of fragment identifiers.  
… We just pointed out that JSON-LD does define a semantics for fragment identifiers.  
… Is DID compatible with it? If not, then it should not be a subtype of ld+json,  
… regardless of the possibility for IANA.  

> *Markus Sabadello:* +1, in DID documents we want to use standard JSON-LD fragment behavior

**Dave Longley:** for me, they should be compatible, and I think this is the opinion of the DID WG.  
… I wonder if we could not just mention in the IANA declaration, that +ld+json should be considered a subtype of ld+json,  
… even despite what the RFC says about the final +.  

**Rob Sanderson:** We can ask IANA what they would think about that if we did that.  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr:** concerned about timing  

**Markus Sabadello:** I agree with Dave about the standard fragment semantics.  

**Rob Sanderson:** dlongley, you mentioned problems with the tooling for the profile approach.  
… can tools be updated more quickly than specs?  

**Dave Longley:** I'm not sure they can.  
… There are many toolchains out there...  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr:** if the only concern is the fragment semantics,  
… and they appear to be in synchrony,  
… do we need a DID media-type in the 1st place?  

**Dave Longley:** we also want a file extension.  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr:** multiple file extensions can be associated with a single media-type.  
… Why not associate the .did extension to application/ld+json?  

**Rob Sanderson:** this would be a bad precedent  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr:** there are lot of things out there, sharing the same media-type,  
… with very different contents.  

**Benjamin Young:** I'm assuming you want a file extension so that desktop apps do the right thing (double click)./  
… Most application do not trust only the extension, and check the content once opened.  
… We could register several extensions with application/ld+json, applications should still check the content.  
… The same problem exists with JSON.  

**Markus Sabadello:** we also want to be able to do content negotiation  
… we want to be able to distinguish btw a DID document and another JSON-LD document.  

**Rob Sanderson:** can we update the IANA section, saying that  
… when a file extension is associated with a profile,  

**Ivan Herman:** this discussion started with the question about multiple +. Shouldn't we go back to checking this? If we can, this is the simplest solution.  
… Let's check with Heather (from IETF). If the answer is no, then we can look for another solution.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to ivan

> *Benjamin Young:* +1 to ivan

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1 to ivan

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr:* did+ld+json conforms to RFC. but tools will probably fall back to json, not to ld+json. which may be OK.

> *Markus Sabadello:* but my understanding is that did+ld+json would NOT automatically inherit from ld+json

**Rob Sanderson:** We could require that the registration of a file extension be combined with the registration of a profile URI. Then there's the express intent of the profile URI and the extension being linked. Then the registration for ld+json would explicitly inherit all of the file extensions of all of the profiles.  
… the RFC says that only the last + is relevant.  
… I agree that we should check. I'm afraid the answer is no.  

**Ivan Herman:** Let's ask, and prepare a fallback plan.  

**Rob Sanderson:** I think the fallback should be profile.  

**Benjamin Young:** the did+ld+json IANA declaration could explicitly state that it inherits ld+json.  

> **Proposed resolution: Ask IETF if the JSON-LD media type registration can specify that it should be able to be used with additional +s, such as did+ld+json, with the intent to fallback to ld+json and then to json. If the answer is no, then we proceed with the profile pattern.** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr:* +1

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr:* worst case, did+ld+json is equivalent to did-ld+json ... and things need to be explicitly and/or redundantly stated in the DID space.

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr:* this should require less retooling than reliance on profile -- which currently only works in conneg

> ***Resolution #2: Ask IETF if the JSON-LD media type registration can specify that it should be able to be used with additional +s, such as did+ld+json, with the intent to fallback to ld+json and then to json. If the answer is no, then we proceed with the profile pattern.***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

**Markus Sabadello:** if the answer is no in general, we can decide later if we go for the profile pattern, or something else...  

> *Markus Sabadello:* +1 to above proposal, but fallback could still be either profile, or did+ld+json

> ***Action #1: contact IETF about the multiple pluses in the JSON-LD registration (Rob Sanderson)***
{: #action1 .action}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-5.3.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-5.3.2)

**Dave Longley:** the did+ld+json is legal; even if IETF decides that it does NOT inherit ld+json in general, we can bake this inheritance in this specific media-type  

**Benjamin Young:** we should check JS libraries, see how they handle this  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr:** JSON-LD WG could suggest that unrecognized /...+ld+json be treatable as /ld+json  
… (this could be non-normative at this point)  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to TallTed

> *Benjamin Young:* +1 to TallTed

> *Markus Sabadello:* +1 to TallTed

**Rob Sanderson:** re. TallTed suggestion, it boils down to what IETF thinks of that pattern  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr:** even if they disagree about it in general, we can still recommend it for JSON-LD  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1 to pchampin

> *Markus Sabadello:* +1 to pchampin

> *Dave Longley:* +1

**Ted Thibodeau Jr:** We could recommend that JSON-LD processors process application/*+ld+json  

> **Proposed resolution: In IANA considerations, allow file extension registration with profile registration.** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Markus Sabadello:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: In IANA considerations, allow file extension registration with profile registration.***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

> **Proposed resolution: Conforming json-ld processors SHOULD treat *+ld+json in the same way as the application/ld+json media type** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Markus Sabadello:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr:* +1

> ***Resolution #4: Conforming json-ld processors SHOULD treat *+ld+json in the same way as the application/ld+json media type***
{: #resolution4 .resolution}

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

**Rob Sanderson:** I hope we get a response from IETF for next week.  

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** anyway, we can put in the document what we have resolved, regardless.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 this works regardless

> *Markus Sabadello:* thank you all for taking the time today!

---


### 4. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Approve minutes of previous call: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-25-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-25-json-ld)
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): Ask IETF if the JSON-LD media type registration can specify that it should be able to be used with additional +s, such as did+ld+json, with the intent to fallback to ld+json and then to json. If the answer is no, then we proceed with the profile pattern.
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): In IANA considerations, allow file extension registration with profile registration.
* [Resolution #4](#resolution4): Conforming json-ld processors SHOULD treat *+ld+json in the same way as the application/ld+json media type

### 5. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): contact IETF about the multiple pluses in the JSON-LD registration (Rob Sanderson)
