---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-11-15
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-11-15
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-11-15-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-11-15",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-11-15",
            "endDate": "2019-11-15",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Benjamin Young"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2019-11-15

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Nov/0016.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/11/15-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rob Sanderson, Gregg Kellogg, Dave Longley, Ivan Herman, David I. Lehn, Benjamin Young

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** Pierre-Antoine Champin

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Rob Sanderson:** There was no minutes in the previous call.  

**Benjamin Young:** last week's meeting was informal, too few people.  

### 1. Issues
{: #section1}

#### 1.1. @version and floating point values
{: #section1-1}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/296](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/296)

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/297](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/297)

**Ivan Herman:** we have voted for a feature freeze a long time ago.  
… We shouldn't change the version format now;  
… this is not a bug, this is a feature request.  

**Rob Sanderson:** as I understand, the argument against a floating point value is that  
… implementations might not do the right thing when comparing 1.1 to 1.1 .  
… So that could be considered as a bug.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I don't see this as a feature request; it raises a potential problem with the spec.  
… That said, I don't think we should change it.  

> *David I. Lehn:* I stand by my comment that we should add a FAQ for this

**Gregg Kellogg:** The argument is described in details in the issue.  
… One argument is that CBOR internal representation may cause problem.  
… But I'm not for changing it.  

**Benjamin Young:** I think we should add a note, to warn implementers against a naive handling of this number.  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to gkellogg -- we don't put implementation considerations in the spec

**Gregg Kellogg:** in JSON it is unambiguous.  
… The problem arises when it is converted to an internal representation,  
… which is an implementation problem.  

**Benjamin Young:** That's why a note might be appropriate.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** agreed  

**Rob Sanderson:** I would suggest that such a note appear in the Best Practices document.  
… Adding implementation notes in the spec seems like a slippery slope.  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to azaroth

> ***Action #1: add note on representation of `@version` not being semantic versioning, and noting issues with comparing floating point values (Gregg Kellogg)***
{: #action1 .action}

**Gregg Kellogg:** it seems a little trivial for BP.  
… And the BP document is more targeted at data publishers than implementers.  

> **Proposed resolution: Reject syntax#296 won't fix as the spec isn't broken, but add a note in the spec about implementation concerns** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Reject syntax#296 won't fix as the spec isn't broken, but add a note in the spec about implementation concerns***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

#### 1.2. Keyword pattern should error when used as a term
{: #section1-2}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/297](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/297)

**Gregg Kellogg:** while discussing syntax#296, I pointed out why we chose to have a number in `@version`;  
… ignoring keywords-like terms in the term definitions may cause the same problem in the future,  
… so I proposed to reject them instead.  
… If `@version` didn't exist, 1.0 and 1.1 processors would generate different results by ignoring things.  
… Publishers can prevent that by using a specific version.  
… We are creating a pattern for future versions.  
… So I agree we should close this issue as wontfix.  

**Dave Longley:** do we throw an error if `@version` is not 1.1?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** yes  
… A future version would presumably allow 1.1 and something else (1.1, 2.0).  

> **Proposed resolution: Close #297 wontfix, change is too extensive, and `@version` deals with most of the problem as is** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

**Dave Longley:** re the problem raised in issue#296, internal representations might not evaluate exactly to 1.1 .  
… What advice do we want to give to implementors?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I don't think that this problem would happen in *practice*.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** 1.1 is *not* represented exactly in float representation, but I agree that the problem is very unlikely to happen  

**Benjamin Young:** version numbers are not really numbers.  
… I don't think that future versions should use 1.* .  

> **Proposed resolution: Close #297 wontfix, change is too extensive, and `@version` deals with most of the problem as is** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

**Gregg Kellogg:** we should not put restrictions on future WG.  

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: Close #297 wontfix, change is too extensive, and `@version` deals with most of the problem as is***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

#### 1.3. Media types / IANA
{: #section1-3}

**Rob Sanderson:** I reached out to Heather Flanagan and Michelle Cotton.  
… They found the problem interesting and said they would look at it.  
… But I didn't get any response.  
… I suggest that we do not consider it as a blocker for going to CR.  

**Dave Longley:** I think we agreed to that on the last call.  

### 2. Test Suite location
{: #section2}

**glellogg:** we had discussed about mirroring the test-suite at W3C,  
… and returning the correct headers.  
… This is our last chance to change the location of the test suite in the spec.  

**Ivan Herman:** What I can do is a redirect from a directory at w3.org to github.  
… Or I can set each individual test as a redirection, with the appropriate headers,  
… but that would be a pain if there are many of them.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** only a few (~20) have headers requirements.  
… But we can set the headers in github.  

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* .. Other WG have solved this problem by hosting them elsewhere.

**Gregg Kellogg:** if we can put a `.htaccess` file on github,  
… we can sync it on W3C -- and have it apply the `.htaccess`.  

**Benjamin Young:** do we expect the test suite to change much in the future?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** in CR, we may have a lot of changes.  
… (discussion about how the CG would handle that after the WG)  

**Ivan Herman:** I'm in favor of leaving it in github,  
… even if implementations have to fake something about the headers.  
… I'm concerned about the burden of hosting them on w3.org.  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-api/tests/remote-doc-manifest.jsonld](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-api/tests/remote-doc-manifest.jsonld)

**Gregg Kellogg:** there are tests related to the content-type, or some headers;  
… so implementers will require to setup an HTTP proxy to actually tests those things.  

**Rob Sanderson:** In the Annotation testing, how did we make headers-related tests?  

**Benjamin Young:** we used web platform tests.  

**Rob Sanderson:** could we use web platform tests for the few of our tests that require setting headers?  

**Ivan Herman:** the web platform tests targets in-browser APIs, this is not what we do.  

**Benjamin Young:** Activity Streams set up their own server for the test suite.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** that's what json-ld.org did.  
… We could consider developing a shim for the benefit of testers.  

**Rob Sanderson:** using localhost, and convincing the system that it is something else, is usually nightmare.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the current workaround works, so let's stick to it  

### 3. CfC for CR
{: #section3}

**Rob Sanderson:** there are no more issues; once the note we have decided to add is added, we can go to CR  

**Gregg Kellogg:** ivan has a script for updating the contributors;  
… maybe it should be run to take into account recent changes in WG membership?  

**Ivan Herman:** I can do that, but that is editorial. We can discuss CR regardless.  
… What we must decide is the minimum date of the CR end.  
… This is a commitment to not move out of CR before that date.  
… When are we confident to have a full recommendation?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we should leave enough time to implementors.  

**Ivan Herman:** this is a *minimal* date, but that does not prevent us from delaying it,  
… if someone comes up and asks us to wait.  

**Rob Sanderson:** this is why I would prefer to set it earlier than later.  

> **Proposed resolution: Earliest end of CR to be February 17th 2020** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: Earliest end of CR to be February 17th 2020***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

**Rob Sanderson:** for the call for consensus, do we need to wait for the note for #296?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** it is editorial.  

**Ivan Herman:** I agree, this is not a problem.  

**Rob Sanderson:** so we can start the CFC now, until?  

**Ivan Herman:** last chance to make changes to [the wiki page](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/wiki/%5BJSON-LD-WG%5D-CR-transition-for-json-ld11,-json-ld11-api,-and-json-ld11-framing)  
… I think that, with Thanksgiving, 10th of December is a reasonable publication date  
… (discussion on ReSpec)  

> **Proposed resolution: Request transition to CR, closing date of CfC is Monday 25th Nov, publication date of December 10th** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> ***Resolution #4: Request transition to CR, closing date of CfC is Monday 25th Nov, publication date of December 10th***
{: #resolution4 .resolution}

### 4. AOB?
{: #section4}

**Ivan Herman:** will we have a primer or any other document?  
… If it will not happen, we can close the WG early once the REC is out.  

**Benjamin Young:** the BP was on Adam and me,  
… Adam is gone and I have said yes to many other things;  
… I intend to put more time into it, and submit it to CG.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I have to check with Victor Charpennay about the CBOR-LD note  

**Rob Sanderson:** in the CR phase and after, there won't be a lot of things for the WG to do  
… We can have 1/2h meeting in that time, and focus on the BP document.  

**Benjamin Young:** if any of you had some BP things, an article you wrote, a presentation you gave,  
… putting this in the BP issue would be super helpful.  
… It would be good to get feedback from the WG during future meetings.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I may have some blog posts that could be repurposed in BP.  

> *Rob Sanderson:* action azaroth to fill out requirements on wiki page

> ***Action #2: fill out requirements on wiki page (Rob Sanderson)***
{: #action2 .action}

**Ivan Herman:** something else; in the Wiki page, there is a "Requirements satisfied" section  

**Gregg Kellogg:** all requirements are captured as issues  

**Ivan Herman:** so using github magic, it should be possible to add a single link to all of them  

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Reject syntax#296 won't fix as the spec isn't broken, but add a note in the spec about implementation concerns
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): Close #297 wontfix, change is too extensive, and `@version` deals with most of the problem as is
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): Earliest end of CR to be February 17th 2020
* [Resolution #4](#resolution4): Request transition to CR, closing date of CfC is Monday 25th Nov, publication date of December 10th

### 6. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): add note on representation of `@version` not being semantic versioning, and noting issues with comparing floating point values (Gregg Kellogg)
* [Action #2](#action2): fill out requirements on wiki page (Rob Sanderson)
