---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-08-16
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-08-16
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-08-16-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-08-16",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-08-16",
            "endDate": "2019-08-16",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ruben Taelman"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "rob sanderson"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2019-08-16

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Aug/0010.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/08/16-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** rob sanderson, Gregg Kellogg, Ivan Herman, Benjamin Young, Ruben Taelman, Dave Longley, David I. Lehn

**Regrets:** Ivan Herman

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Benjamin Young

**Scribe(s):** Ruben Taelman

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Approve minutes of previous call
{: #section1}

> *Benjamin Young:* [Previous call's minutes](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-08-09-json-ld)

> **Proposed resolution: approve last week's minutes** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +0 (not present)

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +0 (not present)

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: approve last week's minutes***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Announcements / Reminders
{: #section2}

#### 2.1. Standing TPAC reminder
{: #section2-1}

**Benjamin Young:** TPAC is coming. Only five of us confirmed, is that correct?  
… On September 1st, the registration price goes up.  

**Ivan Herman:** Correct, five of us are registered at the moment.  

**Rob Sanderson:** I will register today.  

**Ivan Herman:** JSON-LD is on thursday~friday.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Normative things will be resolved, so we can focus on tutorials etc.  

### 3. Horizontal Review Updates
{: #section3}

> *Benjamin Young:* See [Horizonal review issues](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Ahorizontal-review)

**Rob Sanderson:** I've sent an email for the privacy review.  
… I think privacy is in good shape. Is a formal sign-off needed?  

**Ivan Herman:** It would be good if they put a comment on our issue saying "yes, you are done".  
… Or we can explicitly ask them for such a comment, by saying we consider it is done.  

> ***Action #1: request an okay from PING on [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/88](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/88) (Rob Sanderson)***
{: #action1 .action}

**Ivan Herman:** Just like I did for #93.  

**Rob Sanderson:** #77 had a questionaire, which I did. #93 also had such a questionnaire, which has been done.  

> *Ivan Herman:* See [Security/Privacy questionnaire](https://w3ctag.github.io/security-questionnaire/)

**Rob Sanderson:** Process doc says that for privacy, you have to email them, and they come to you. But for I18N, you email them, and you come to them.  
… On June 19th, I emailed them, saying that we will be going to CR before TPAC, so they would have to check before then.  

**Ivan Herman:** If you've sent it, and followed the steps, but if they don't answer, we are fine.  

**Rob Sanderson:** I will send a new mail for privacy asking for them to check.  

> ***Action #2: put [https://w3ctag.github.io/security-questionnaire/](https://w3ctag.github.io/security-questionnaire/) into [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/89](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/89) and request comments from security (Rob Sanderson)***
{: #action2 .action}

**Ivan Herman:** For I18N, we have the issue of base direction. There has been an action in June where we tried to start a WG to fix it in RDF. If it fixed there, it will be fixed everywhere else.  
… Not a lot of response. Only person who reacted was Andy.  
… In september, we will have to put a plug on this. So issue will still be unresolved.  
… It should not affect JSON-LD 1.1, but on long term in may.  
… Andy said that it may be simpler to introduce terms in RDF namespace to create reified objects with value and direction.  

> *Benjamin Young:* See [RDF Direction Literal repository](https://github.com/w3c/rdf-dir-literal)

**Gregg Kellogg:** `rdf:value` is underutilized, and may be the way to go.  

**Benjamin Young:** Are there actions for this group to take?  

**Ivan Herman:** Not really, I've sent multiple mails to semweb mailing list.  
… The `rdf:value` option may be the only way to go if there comes no further feedback.  

### 4. Issues
{: #section4}

#### 4.1. Framing and @container:@set for scoped contexts
{: #section4-1}

> *Benjamin Young:* See [Framing issue #64](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/64)

**Rob Sanderson:** In framing context, I had a `@container:@set`. I did various things in playground, and discovered that in framing, container:set does not get handled properly. It does work fine in compaction.  
… Also in Python implementation.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** This is because there's a step to handle `@preserve` values post-compaction.  
… This is because there are cases where there are null values that are replaced during compaction.  
… My suggested fix would emit empty array instead of null. But this does not preserve null in output anymore.  

**Dave Longley:** JSON devs expect null there, so it must be preserved. They want to see the null there.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Except if null is part of an array.  

**Dave Longley:** Indeed. That's another case.  
… I wonder if we can do something during compaction to indicate preserve:null.  
… Can we leave a note during compaction for this?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** One way would be to separate processing of preserve:null, and do preserve before compaction. Once it has been compacted, there may be values with null. If in array, would be removed, if not, it would be preserved.  
… There's no easy way to handle this. But handling null after compaction may be the best way.  

**Dave Longley:** Not great, but may be a good solution.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Not needed to discuss this further during this call. There is a way to fix this. But this is implementation work.  

#### 4.2. Link header for HTML and JSON-LD #204
{: #section4-2}

**Benjamin Young:** Link header: preemptive conneg.  

> *Benjamin Young:* See [Syntax issue #204](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/204)

> *Benjamin Young:* See [API PR #134](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/134)

> *Benjamin Young:* See [Syntax PR #212](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/212)

**Benjamin Young:** 2 PRs are ready to go, right?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Yes. Open question for base during redirect.  
… If you retrieve something non-json. Doc loader will detect rel-alternative links, and redirect to that resource.  
… I think the original requested document should be preserved as base URL.  
… Just like 303 redirect semantics. In 302, this would not be the case.  

**Rob Sanderson:** JS will silently follow redirects and give you the results. So you don't know which redirects got you there.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** JS should correctly implement redirect semantics.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to using 303 semantics, so on, +1 to gregg's position.

**Gregg Kellogg:** You have processing state to keep track on this.  

> **Proposed resolution: merge api#134 and syntax#212, and close syntax#204** *(Ivan Herman)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* :shipit:

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +0.5

> ***Resolution #2: merge api#134 and syntax#212, and close syntax#204***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

#### 4.3. JSON-LD Context processing in HTML Documents #172
{: #section4-3}

> *Benjamin Young:* See [Syntax issue #172](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/172)

**Benjamin Young:** This issue is very related. Originally, extracting JSON-LD from HTML. This can now be done with a simple link header.  
… schema.org for example does not want to use conneg, so this is good for this. Proposed closing based on the last PRs.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** The behavior is slightly modified if you request context. Document loader will not add text/html from request. The API is not affected too much.  
… If you will deal with HTML, like schema.org, then you can achieve a compatibility level with processing JSON-LD in HTML, instead of doing it mid-processing.  

**Dave Longley:** Everything is untangled, and is cleaner now.  

**Ivan Herman:** Users should be warned that they don't define context as part of an HTML file.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** We don't have text saying that it can't be done. We just removed the text saying that it can be done.  

**Ivan Herman:** Because it can be done in theory?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Syntax doesn't say anything about it. API doc explicitly excludes HTML.  

> **Proposed resolution: close #172 as addressed by #204** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: close #172 as addressed by #204***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

#### 4.4. Reconsider Processing Levels #213
{: #section4-4}

> *Benjamin Young:* See [Syntax issue #213](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/213)

**Benjamin Young:** This issue discusses multiple processing levels.  
… If the link header approach solves the use case for linking to a JSON-LD context in HTML, then we probably don't need a full processor level for HTML processing.  

**Ivan Herman:** If I remember well (we're talking about schema.org), JSON-LD in HTML this came up with a discussion that website producers had difficulties producing microdata/rdfa when they had different data in databases, and wanted an easier way to dump data from their databases in JSON.  
… If we don't say anything about JSON-LD in HTML, then how can we trust any JSON-LD processor out there that this JSON-LD in HTML will be used?  
… The only way at the moment is to put it in a different file.  
… Also, the reason why they did it back then is because that's the easiest way to produce JSON-LD data.  

**Rob Sanderson:** I agree. We have normatively defined how JSON-LD is expressed in HTML. So we've opened the door to this. This requires all processors to handle HTML. These levels allow only some processors to not handle HTML.  
… I'm fine with putting it in the docloader spec.  
… Main question is: can we have a conforming processor that can not handle HTML?  

**Benjamin Young:** These data blocks have been used for a long time before JSON-LD. Anything can be placed in there. This is part of the HTML spec.  
… (part around data blocks in HTML5 spec)  
… A piece of software that exist now that extracts data from data blocks, and forwards it to any processor can also be used to handle extracting JSON-LD from HTML.  

> *Benjamin Young:* See [HTML data blocks](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/scripting.html#data-block)

**Dave Longley:** I feel like talking about HTML in a JSON-LD processor is conflating formats. We need a cleaner separation of concerns.  
… HTML is not the only format in which JSON-LD can be included.  

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

**Dave Longley:** It is a mistake to define these different levels. Instead, we should see it as plugging in a JSON-LD processor in another piece of software.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** There is not standard way to handle these data blocks. What happens when you have a doc with multiple JSON-LD docs? And combined with RDFa?  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to gkellogg

**Gregg Kellogg:** We have to define these things normatively.  
… JSON-LD is not just about getting LD from JSON, it is more. We also tackle issues regarding link headers etc.  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to gkellogg

> *Dave Longley:* "JSON-LD in HTML" almost feels like a separate spec to me ... and we have a mechanism to hook this up to a JSON-LD processor -- a document loader; we could define other extensions this way ... it provides a clear pattern.

> *Benjamin Young:* supports clarifying multiple blocks, data sets, etc.

> *Benjamin Young:* +1 to dlongley

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to gkellogg

> *Dave Longley:* +1 that we should specify how to do it -- but we need a cleaner architecture and repeatable extension pattern

**Rob Sanderson:** If we have normative recs about JSON-LD in HTML, and have two processor classes, then we need different processor levels.  

> *Dave Longley:* -1 to making this about processor classes

> *Rob Sanderson:* dlongley - the issue is explicitly about processor classes?

> *Dave Longley:* azaroth: yes, it is ... and i think people are confused about my position/benjamin's ... we aren't arguing against defininig how to do JSON-LD in HTML

> *Dave Longley:* azaroth: it's about processor classes and the architecture.

**Benjamin Young:** The point isn't that we shouldn't normatively describe this. I would like a spec on graphs in HTML.  
… We should however not put the extraction concern of extracting JSON-LD from HTML in this spec.  

> *Ruben Taelman:* .. There should be a separate thing in front of this.

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to benjamin, this does not scale and is a bad architecture choice.

**Ivan Herman:** If I am a user, I put data into HTML as JSON-LD. How do I make sure that it is understood?  
… Do I have to write a separate processor? I have to know how, otherwise it is useless.  
… For example, RDFa processors do a basic entailment, based on flags. Processors can only do things based on these flags. If I know that someone's processor supports flags, then I can use a specific processor based on these capabilities. We need something like this, otherwise this is useless to users.  

**Dave Longley:** Processor classes won't solve ivan's problem.  
… If you want to process JSON-LD from HTML, you have to look at that separate spec. Different document loaders can support these things. This is a better architecture, regarding separation of concerns.  

> *Benjamin Young:* +1 to dlongley's summation

**Gregg Kellogg:** Concern people have is that to be a full processors, you have to process HTML. Defining these as capabilities may be better.  
… I would support extracting HTML bits from our current spec to something else.  

> *Dave Longley:* we don't have to split this up now

> *Dave Longley:* let's make sure we CAN split it up later.

> *Dave Longley:* we can have the right architecture now and split later.

**Rob Sanderson:** I agree with dlongley and gkellogg.  

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

**Rob Sanderson:** It would be cleaner in a different spec. But we don't have time to split into a different spec. Maybe something for JSON-LD 2.0.  

> *Dave Longley:* we're not talking about a ton of changes.

**Ivan Herman:** If we do this, we won't adhere to our timetable.  

> *Dave Longley:* no, no no... not saying that.

> *Dave Longley:* ok, next call :)

**Benjamin Young:** Let's take this to next call, as we will need it.  

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): approve last week's minutes
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): merge api#134 and syntax#212, and close syntax#204
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): close #172 as addressed by #204

### 6. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): request an okay from PING on [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/88](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/88) (Rob Sanderson)
* [Action #2](#action2): put [https://w3ctag.github.io/security-questionnaire/](https://w3ctag.github.io/security-questionnaire/) into [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/89](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/89) and request comments from security (Rob Sanderson)
