---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-10-18
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-10-18
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-18-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-10-18",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-10-18",
            "endDate": "2019-10-18",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ruben Taelman"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jeff Mixter"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2019-10-18

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Oct/0007.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/10/18-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Rob Sanderson, Ruben Taelman, Gregg Kellogg, Dave Longley, Jeff Mixter, Pierre-Antoine Champin

**Regrets:** Benjamin Young

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** Ruben Taelman

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Rob Sanderson:** Call Last call of November will be skipped due to Thanksgiving.  

### 1. Approve minutes of previous call
{: #section1}

> **Proposed resolution: Approve minutes of previous call: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-11-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-11-json-ld)** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Approve minutes of previous call: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-11-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-11-json-ld)***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Issues
{: #section2}

#### 2.1. Blanket approve "propose closing" to be closed
{: #section2-1}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/4?fullscreen=true&card_filter_query=label%3A%22propose+closing%22](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/4?fullscreen=true&card_filter_query=label%3A%22propose+closing%22)

**Rob Sanderson:** We should close all issues labelled with "propose closing".  

> **Proposed resolution: Close all completed editorial actions** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: Close all completed editorial actions***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

**Rob Sanderson:** People have weighed in on every issue, so we can safely close them.  

#### 2.2. Lazy evaluation of 1.1 processing mode
{: #section2-2}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/161](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/161)

> *Gregg Kellogg:* Also [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/284](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/284)

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/pull/76](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/pull/76)

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/170](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/170)

**Rob Sanderson:** It would be easier for version migration compliance to handle `@version` keyword lazily, and let processors detect them based on the features that are being used.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** When we discussed it, the idea was that we would do feature detection, and move up to 1.1 when we saw that.  
… If you are explicitly in 1.0 mode, then you don't run any 1.1 features. If one such feature would be 1.1, then a 1.0 processor would terminate.  
… This would happen in any case on old processors if they see unknown (new) features.  
… The PRs describe this slight change and the necessary steps.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to gregg's description of how lazy eval works

**Rob Sanderson:** There was a question about the tests to see if there were any issues.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** There weren't any exceptions. I just added a couple of tests.  
… I've updated many tests that used to the processing mode explicitly, and things seem to work correctly.  

**Dave Longley:** As we will probably will have a JSON-LD 1.2 at some point, we don't want to lock down the version in the algorithm.  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 dlongley

**Gregg Kellogg:** I agree.  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 as well

**Rob Sanderson:** Is this written like that in the PRs?  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to remove those clauses

**Gregg Kellogg:** Yes, the PRs make it so that processing mode can be "unset", which allows the silent upgrade.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to merge the PRs with the above changes

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 for me, too

**Gregg Kellogg:** The conformance section describes changes to proc mode as well, besides the algorithmic changes.  

> **Proposed resolution: Accept changes after changing clause for explicit 1.1 for API #161, lazy evaluation of processing mode** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: Accept changes after changing clause for explicit 1.1 for API #161, lazy evaluation of processing mode***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

**Gregg Kellogg:** Another useful thing would be a doc/post about the process to update to 1.1.  

**Ivan Herman:** We have to clarify that this is not just lazy evaluation, but it is better than just that.  

#### 2.3. @default for @type
{: #section2-3}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/74](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/74)

**Rob Sanderson:** The only thing you can't consider `@default` for is `@type`.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Also not `@id`.  
… Framing was mentioned as the proper way to handle these cases, but it does not work right now.  

**Rob Sanderson:** This fits with our general pattern to allow `@type` to allow more functionality and context, such as @container and @set.  
… While our feature window is closed, we can consider this a bug.  

**Dave Longley:** This is indeed an oversight, something we can fix.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** So the idea is that `@type` with @default would set the type on node object or value objects, or any of them?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think only on node objects.  
… We would have to check the algorithm.  

**Dave Longley:** I think gkellogg is correct.  

**Rob Sanderson:** Me too. Otherwise we would open up weird issues with @direction and @value.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to azaroth

> **Proposed resolution: Accept framing #74 as an oversight to be fixed for `@type` on node objects** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> ***Resolution #4: Accept framing #74 as an oversight to be fixed for `@type` on node objects***
{: #resolution4 .resolution}

#### 2.4. Reframing relationships
{: #section2-4}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/73](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/73)

**Rob Sanderson:** There's a graph in the first example, and they want to restructure it so that the actor created has an event. But they can not do everything they want. This looks like a new feature, so we should defer this to the next version, or wontfix.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** It begs the question: what is the purpose of framing?  
… You could keep adding features to lead to a complex construct language.  
… We should understand the boundaries of what framing is intended to do.  
… best practices might describe how you can do more advanced things using sparql constructs.  

**Dave Longley:** I would mark this as defer, for future discussion in a future version. We may not want to say outright that we don't want this as a framing feature.  

**Rob Sanderson:** We would likely say no, but agreed.  

> **Proposed resolution: Defer framing #73 to future version, as new feature after the proposal window is closed** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> ***Resolution #5: Defer framing #73 to future version, as new feature after the proposal window is closed***
{: #resolution5 .resolution}

### 3. Misc
{: #section3}

**David I. Lehn:** For best practices: jsonld.org site still points to old site, should we point to the new one?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Agreed, let's do it like the prev specs.  

**David I. Lehn:** How should we track new features after this WG?  

**Rob Sanderson:** We should still file the issues, but don't handle them at the moment.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** We discussed this as TPAC, and it depends on evolution of WG into CG.  
… We can pull back in the WG group into the existing CG.  
… This would be a sustainable way to manage the issues in the CG, until a new WG is chartered.  

**Ivan Herman:** I would postpone this issue for now.  
… There are discussions that the process at W3C might change, before the charter of this group runs out.  
… There may be a possibility to keep this WG alive at a low-scale, in maintenance mode.  
… So I would wait a bit.  
… People can still report issues in the repos. When we publish the recs, we will have to work out how to handle errata.  
… I have tools from CSVW WG that we can reuse for errata.  
… For now, just use WG repos.  

**Rob Sanderson:** This was also discussed at chairs lunch.  
… I can't report on what was discussed.  

**Ivan Herman:** I was there, but it was not really discussed.  

### 4. CR Preparation
{: #section4}

**Ruben Taelman:** what is timeline for implementations?  

**Ivan Herman:** This will come back during the CR discussion, depends on where we are with that.  

**Rob Sanderson:** You have best oversight on amount of editorial work to be done.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** One of biggest remaining things is algorithmic folding, which pchampin works on.  

**Ivan Herman:** It would be an editorial change.  
… I would prefer to go to CR when that stuff is done.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I agree, it's only editorial, but there would be a substantial change.  
… I wanted to wait until algorithms are stabilized.  
… Because the folding stuff would be impacted by that.  
… So once that's done, we can go to CR.  

**Ivan Herman:** So when?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** End of November I think.  

**Ivan Herman:** Can I set a proposal of 8th of November, we aim at voting to go to CR.  
… Is that an acceptable goal?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think we can do that.  
… 15th of November may be better.  

**Ivan Herman:** Ok. But we get near Thanksgiving.  
… We have to prepare documents, and may have to have some calls.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Maybe we should do the 8th then.  

**Ivan Herman:** Ok  

**Rob Sanderson:** How long to those docs be prepared in advance?  

**Ivan Herman:** Up to the WG. Usually five working days.  

**Rob Sanderson:** _1st of November would be beginning of consensus_.  
… By then the documents would need to be fixed.  
… Is that feasible?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Yes, if I work on editorial issue, and folding is for pchampin.  

**Ivan Herman:** I've made this wiki page for things we have to collect.  
… The request for CR simply means raising an issue at the specific repo.  
… I hope the template has not changed, we may want to check that.  
… Let me pick it up...  

> *Ivan Herman:* See [CR submission template](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/wiki/%5BJSON-LD-WG%5D-CR-transition-for-json-ld11,-json-ld11-api,-and-json-ld11-framing)

**Ivan Herman:** I have no idea what exactly to write on focus on substantive changes.  
… I need help for that.  
… We have a set of changes in the document, right?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Yes, since last WG and since CG.  

**Ivan Herman:** Great, let's link to those.  
… "Requirements satisfied", not sure to write there either.  

> ***Action #1: add links to changes to CR request wiki page (Gregg Kellogg)***
{: #action1 .action}

**Gregg Kellogg:** Requirements were fed from github issues.  

**Ivan Herman:** CG github?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** CG work began because of issues posted to CG repo. So those were requirements.  

**Ivan Herman:** So we list that as requirements to WG.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** We need to identify issues from CG we want to use.  

> ***Action #2: find CG issues and reference in CR request wiki page (Rob Sanderson)***
{: #action2 .action}

**Ivan Herman:** "Wide review" is in issues, nothing via e-mail.  
… Last thing is information on implementation acceptance criteria.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** We want to give an adequate amount of time to let implementations update.  

**Ivan Herman:** Three months from publication of CR?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Three months sounds fine to me.  

**Ivan Herman:** What will our criteria be?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Standard is two implementations per feature.  
… We still may want to think about the specific features, if we need it for those.  

**Ivan Herman:** Yes, let's do that later.  
… We now have a set of tests for every feature.  
… We can say we need two independent implementations for every feature to pass tests.  
… gkellogg can you send me a mail with authoritative tests?  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* See [Test summary, draft implementation report](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-api/reports/)

**Gregg Kellogg:** Sure, they can also be found at the top of implementation report.  

**Ivan Herman:** When we say "features", they are tested.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Some tests will test more than one feature at a time.  
… It requires looking at description of test to know what is being tested.  
… tc023 is an example of many features.  

**Ivan Herman:** I see test has a description of relevant features, so that's ok.  
… Can we say something about additional implementations?  
… CR is asking for informative test saying how many impls we expect.  
… Ruby, JS, and maybe C/C++?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Hopefully Java  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* See Developers section in [https://json-ld.org](https://json-ld.org)

**Dave Longley:** Hopefully Python  

**Ruben Taelman:** And one more JS/TypeScript, but not for compacting/framing.  

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Approve minutes of previous call: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-11-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-11-json-ld)
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): Close all completed editorial actions
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): Accept changes after changing clause for explicit 1.1 for API #161, lazy evaluation of processing mode
* [Resolution #4](#resolution4): Accept framing #74 as an oversight to be fixed for `@type` on node objects
* [Resolution #5](#resolution5): Defer framing #73 to future version, as new feature after the proposal window is closed

### 6. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): add links to changes to CR request wiki page (Gregg Kellogg)
* [Action #2](#action2): find CG issues and reference in CR request wiki page (Rob Sanderson)