---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-03-15
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-03-15
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}


**Date:** 2019-03-15

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Mar/0028.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/03/15-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Benjamin Young, Adam Soroka, Rob Sanderson, Ruben Taelman, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Dave Longley, David I. Lehn, Gregg Kellogg, Ivan Herman, Harold Solbrig, Jeff Mixter

**Regrets:** David Newbury, Tim Cole

**Guests:** Kazuyuki Ashimura, Victor Charpenay

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** Adam Soroka

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Announcements
{: #section1}

**Rob Sanderson:** DST is upon us, and the call is based on time in Boston, US  

### 2. The Berlin Graph Data workshop
{: #section2}

**Gregg Kellogg:** three tracks, different attendance at all  
… general sense of JSON-LD's importance  
… general acclamation for Olag Hartig's RDF* (and SPARQL*)  

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* rdf* paper: [http://olafhartig.de/files/Hartig_AMW2017_RDFStar.pdf](http://olafhartig.de/files/Hartig_AMW2017_RDFStar.pdf)

**Gregg Kellogg:** Blazegraph, Stardog, others implement this  
… a syntax for reification in JSON-LD might work better  
… perhaps work for the CG  
… moves to create a W3C Business Group for this effort  
… which can hopefully draw in some vendors of property graph systems  

**Ivan Herman:** we could have ended with a dog fight between us and property graph people  
… remember the fights with Topic Maps folks?  
… but that didn't happen. Much good will instead and desire for cooperation  
… JSON-LD clearly considered to be an important player  
… how that could converge with PG? we shall see.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** agreed with gkellogg and ivan  

**Rob Sanderson:** other announcements?  

### 3. TPAC in Japan
{: #section3}

**Rob Sanderson:** we intend to be in CR before TPAC  
… so do folks think a F2F @ TPAC would be valuable?  
… Japan is a long way for many participants, so expensive, but we would need a reasonable number of attendees  
… but then, people need longer lead time for farther travel  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* -1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +0

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1, but some form of funding would help!

> *Ruben Taelman:* +0

> *Adam Soroka:* +0 (hard to say, given all the things that could happen to the Federal gov't between now and then)

> *Benjamin Young:* +1 (certainly if other groups I'm in are meeting)

> *Dave Longley:* -0.5 (more likely not)

> *David I. Lehn:* -0.5

> *Jeff Mixter:* -1

**Rob Sanderson:** probably below zero total  
… would it be valuable to meet in Japan at all?  
… since we intend to be in CR.  

> *Adam Soroka:* -0.5

> *Rob Sanderson:* +0

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

**Benjamin Young:** besides our own plans, we have groups from which we need horizontal review  
… e.g. WoT  
… so some people have multiple groups to attend  
… then there's the question of whether we can effectively rep JSON-LD to other groups  

**Rob Sanderson:** yes, that's a separate question  
… we certainly do need representation there, but do we need a full-on meeting?  

> *Benjamin Young:* +0 wrt to CR...since we can't do much without our WG's membership

**Gregg Kellogg:** 1) CR doesn't mean we're done.  
… and we have other docs for which we are responsible  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to gkellogg

**Gregg Kellogg:** and for the purposes of reserving space, we could indicate that we intend to meet, at least at this early stage  

**Rob Sanderson:** how about we put in a "YES", assuming that all the +0s will attend  
… then we have the space if we need it  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

### 4. issues
{: #section4}

**Gregg Kellogg:** might we briefly discuss framing issue 43 "embed first"?  

**Rob Sanderson:** okay, five minutes for that  

#### 4.1. `@embed` `@first` issue
{: #section4-1}

> *Dave Longley:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/43](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/43)

**Gregg Kellogg:** implemented as well as accompanied by tests  
… seems straightforward  

> *Dave Longley:* or `@once` (which is a historical name)

**Gregg Kellogg:** another alternative would be to remove first and last and go back to all or none  

**Dave Longley:** there is an important use case for having at least one of `@first` or `@last`  
… frame docs where you don't care where something appears but it must appear  
… or certain properties must appear in certain places  
… historically the name for this was `@once`  
… the change was mostly for testing purposes  

**Ivan Herman:** I feel uneasy that we are talking about order in an environment that doesn't inherently have order  

**Gregg Kellogg:** that's why the algorithms do ordering  

**Ivan Herman:** from the user POV they have to know about the algorithms  
… which is not ideal. I'm not objecting, just sharing uneasiness  

**Ivan Herman:** can we push this to next week? It's more than five minutes of talk.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** ivan's comment is not about this specific PR, but about the general point  
… the existence of `@last` implies an `@first`, but the real question is should we be implying ordering at all  

> *Dave Longley:* +1

#### 4.2. RDF Deserialization and `@index`
{: #section4-2}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/65](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/65)

**Victor Charpenay:** not much to add to the ticket  
… we are working on a Thing Description which is intended to be JSON-LD  
… especially with respect to transformation into RDF  
… in the TD document, we make heavy us of `@index`  

> *Kazuyuki Ashimura:* -> [https://w3c.github.io/wot-thing-description/#note-jsonld10-processing](https://w3c.github.io/wot-thing-description/#note-jsonld10-processing) WoT Thing Description - Transformation to JSON-LD&RDF

**Victor Charpenay:** we want to be able to use SPARQL against the data, or roundtrip it  
… the intention of the issue is to keep the indexed values in some way  
… the activity on this issue is appreciated  

**Rob Sanderson:** to summarize the proposals:  
… indexing by id is one potential solution  
… but it's possible for a term to be used in different ways within the same document  

**Victor Charpenay:** and that's not a theoretical problem. we had that real problem as we implemented  
… oracle ran into this problem in building an API  

**Rob Sanderson:** another proposal; use a property within the graph like "indexkey" to maintain the info  
… which would afford some degree for roundtripping  
… and then a lot of discussion about which way to go  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I originally thought we might allow an arbitrary IRI to be used in `@container`, which would have allowed arbitrary indexing  
… but pchampin suggested we reuse `@index`  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 for "light touch" solutions

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** my concern is that compaction would be more complex, but I know realize that gkellogg could speak to this  
… would it make a big change if we just looked for a specific property for indexing, and not an arbitrary one  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think it's similar enough to what we're already doing with types to not be, but we'd have to try to be sure. E.g. what if it's a node object vs. a value object?  
… so you could lose other aspects (language, etc.)  

**Victor Charpenay:** isn't that dealt with in the compaction algorithm?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** literals become value objects, everything with an id becomes a node object  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-syntax/#dfn-node-object](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-syntax/#dfn-node-object) vs. [https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-syntax/#dfn-value-object](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-syntax/#dfn-value-object)

> *Dave Longley:* error if there is no "simple value"

**Ivan Herman:** I come to this as a user  
… I am in favor of pchampin's proposal because the other one would make this automatic  
… whether or not I want it  
… but pchampin's idea makes the creator make this thing explicit  
… in this case, that's better and cleaner  
… provided that the extra work is okay by WoT  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to pchampin's approach as well (more natural, no extra artifacts), and doesn't break RDF canonicalization/signature/hashing issues.

**Victor Charpenay:** yes, to use pchampin's approach we just create a new predicate  

**Rob Sanderson:** do properties of this kind have semantics?  
… or can we encode them using `@nest`?  
… which gives us JSON structure but adds no RDF/graph structure  

**Victor Charpenay:** a constant effort in the WG has been to make everything linkable  
… so the property should be representable in something (RDF?)  

**Victor Charpenay:** a Thing Description should be serializable in RDF  
… everything should be kept, nothing should be "pure JSON"  

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1 to Rob's concern about what the semantics of the properties in relation to the Thing

**Ivan Herman:** so `@nest` is not usable?  

**Victor Charpenay:** correct  

**Rob Sanderson:** in the ontology, what is the range of "properties"  

**Victor Charpenay:** a singular "propertaffordance"  
… ths is _NOT_ a representation of the properties of the thing described  

**Rob Sanderson:** so a Thing Desc could have separate properties/predicates/values, each of which has the same key, and each could have diff meanings?  

**Victor Charpenay:** structurally that's not possible  
… because each key should point to an object  
… but in RDF, yes, that would be possible  
… and we want to keep the relationship with RDF  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://w3c.github.io/wot-thing-description/#property-serialization-json](https://w3c.github.io/wot-thing-description/#property-serialization-json)

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** following on azaroth's idea, would it make sense to say that temperature and on/off resolves to _predicates_ that are subclasses of "property"?  
… so that some kind of inference would provide the affordance?  
… because my gut tells me that `@nest` is a good candidate here  

**Benjamin Young:** the WoT is based in part on JSON Schema, so if we solve for this, we solve for the growing list of JSON Schema-based specs  
… including OpenAPI, which brings a flock of JSON APIs specified in that way  
… lots of collateral value  

**Victor Charpenay:** in fact we  intend to publish a vocab for describing JSON Schemas in RDF  

**Rob Sanderson:** are there properties of the blank node that is the property's property's that would conflict with property's of the thing itself  

**Victor Charpenay:** you are suggesting to take the intermediate object as an individual  

**Rob Sanderson:** yes. I'm trying to explore if there's a reason that "properties" itself needs to be in there  

**Victor Charpenay:** there is more to the Thing Desc. there are actions, there are events  
… they cannot be merged  
… into the root object  
… conflicting keys would result  

**Rob Sanderson:** e.g. an on/off action could be distinguished  

**Victor Charpenay:** yes  

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* which is also a good reason not to use it as an `@id` map :)

**Rob Sanderson:** so we can't use `@nest`? should we run with pchampin's suggestion?  
… thoughts?  

**Benjamin Young:** the return trip from RDF is inhibited  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to bigbluehat

**Benjamin Young:** `@nest` would mean that you've lost that properties space  
… you'd have to sort that out outside the compaction algo  

**Gregg Kellogg:** `@nest`, because it has no semantics, can't be used here  
… so we're back to indexing arbitrary properties, and pchampin's idea is the cleanest  

**Ivan Herman:** all in favor of pchampin's idea  
… but let me throw in some bikeshedding  
… should we use the syntax as proposed term or not?/  
… we may have to look at whether we need a fresh keyword  

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* I really don't see how it is misleading... but we can discuss this later, definitely :)

> *Gregg Kellogg:* I don’t think it’s misleading, either.

**Rob Sanderson:** pchampin, will you make a proposal?  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I propose adding a new keyword in the term dfns to be used with `@container` : `@index` to be used to specify an arbitrary property on which to index  

> **Proposed resolution: Add a new keyword to be used with `@container:@index` to indicate the property to use instead of `@index` to solve WoT request** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Add a new keyword to be used with `@container:@index` to indicate the property to use instead of `@index` to solve WoT request***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

**Ivan Herman:** q to kaz and victor: is this the only prob you have for us?  

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** great question!  
… I was thinking about this several hours ago on the call  
… if we clarify this point, there should be no big problems  
… this discussion was really, REALLY, _REALLY_ appreciated  

**Ivan Herman:** I asked because we are planning to feature-freeze in two weeks  
… so if there are other issues, we need them now!  

**Victor Charpenay:** sebastian made some slides to summarize, one is scoped contexts  

**Ivan Herman:** that's an integral part of our work  

**Victor Charpenay:** the other one was this feature we just discussed (indexing)  
… we can do something ad hoc until something appears in draft  
… it's not blocking us from releasing specs  

**Ivan Herman:** what's the timing?  

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** right  

**Ivan Herman:** what seems to work with the director is that if we as a WG make it clear that these features are stable  
… so they won't change out from under you  
… we can do that, but we need to know when you need that  

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** WG charter goes to the end of June  
… we wanted a CR by the end of March, but that's not possible, so maybe April?  
… that's our timeline  

**Ivan Herman:** so from our (JSON-LDs) POV, the scoped context is in the draft, has been there for a long time  
… it would be good if this new feature gets into the draft soon  
… pchampin, how much work does this need?  
… to get it to TR?  

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** if you can update your draft based on this discussion, that would be great  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I could have a shot at the syntax doc by the end of next week  

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** sounds fine!  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I'm not as comfortable with the API doc yet, so that might take a bit longer  

**Kazuyuki Ashimura:** I appreciate JSON-LD WG's help!  
… thank you!  

**Rob Sanderson:** you are welcome and thanks to kaz an victor for coming!  

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Add a new keyword to be used with `@container:@index` to indicate the property to use instead of `@index` to solve WoT request
