---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-01-24
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2020-01-24
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-24-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-01-24",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-01-24",
            "endDate": "2020-01-24",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ruben Taelman"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Benjamin Young"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Harold Solbrig"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adam Soroka"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2020-01-24

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2020Jan/0016.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/01/24-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Gregg Kellogg, Ruben Taelman, Rob Sanderson, Ivan Herman, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Benjamin Young, Dave Longley, Harold Solbrig, David I. Lehn, Adam Soroka

**Regrets:** Tim Cole

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** Ruben Taelman, Rob Sanderson

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Rob Sanderson:* present_

### 1. Approve minutes of previous call
{: #section1}

> **Proposed resolution: Approve Minutes of previous call: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-17-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-17-json-ld)** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +0

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Approve Minutes of previous call: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-17-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-17-json-ld)***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Announcements / Reminders?
{: #section2}

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

**Gregg Kellogg:** JS implementation from digitalbazaar is close to 100% for everything but framing.  
… Treatment of entities in script elements is difficult with dom parser. So this will be difficult to get spec-compliant.  

**Rob Sanderson:** Will there be difficulties for all JS implementations?  

**Dave Longley:** I would propose adding at-risk.  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* jsonld.js PRs [https://github.com/digitalbazaar/jsonld.js/pulls](https://github.com/digitalbazaar/jsonld.js/pulls)

**Dave Longley:** Browsers may not be able to do what we want to do. Different behaviour may be allowed if such difficulties are encountered.  

**Ivan Herman:** XML entities in script elements are the problem?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Script elements should be unaltered. XML Entities inside script elements are typically decoded by parsers at the moment. But we don't want that to happen.  
… One way to handle JSON-LD in script tags would be to escape them, but we don't want to escape them. According to what ivan said, we want script elements to remain unaltered.  
… We could encourage authors to not include such entities in script elements.  

**Rob Sanderson:** This is new in 1.1, so this is not a backwards-incompatibility. So we can change this as we want.  

> ***Action #1: create issue for ATRISK of entities within HTML script elements. (Gregg Kellogg)***
{: #action1 .action}

**Rob Sanderson:** Shall we make it at-risk now? Or wait to see if we can solve it.  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/digitalbazaar/jsonld.js/pull/347](https://github.com/digitalbazaar/jsonld.js/pull/347)

**Benjamin Young:** The PR gkellogg is for jsonld.js. Is this code running in the browser?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Testing environment mostly node. The use case within a browser is not considered in this PR.  
… The browser may have different interfaces. Should be reconsidered for this use case.  

**Benjamin Young:** Schema.org parsing by chrome is done using headless browser.  

> *Dave Longley:* the DOM APIs are what probably matter here: [https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#dom-node-textcontent](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#dom-node-textcontent)

**Ruben Taelman:** to mention the parser I use, it's HtmlParser2. I have not looked at this problem yet. It's possible that I do not have the issue. Wondering if there are tests for this case already to see  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Yes  
… if you look at the PR, one of the changed files is test common, and shows a couple of commented out tests for this  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to writing to the spec :D

**Dave Longley:** People should be writing the parsers to what the specs say. Whatever we ask should be compatible with the spec. So it's important to know if xmldom is spec-compliant.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** The specs may not specifically talk about this.  

**Benjamin Young:** Do we provide any guidance on getting text out of script element?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** There's a section in the API spec on that.  

**Rob Sanderson:** Is someone willing to do the research on what the spec says that should happen?  

**Benjamin Young:** The linked section only talks about HTML spec, not DOM spec. So we may look into that.  
… I can look at it this afternoon.  

**Rob Sanderson:** The Greggs have worked together, and now the Perl implementation for expansion passes all of the tests. He will now work on compaction, so expect new issues on that.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to macros

**Gregg Kellogg:** There was a fairly large rewrite of the compaction algorithm, which was an improvement.  

### 3. Issues
{: #section3}

#### 3.1. Normalize language tags
{: #section3-1}

**link:** [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/337](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/337)  

**Rob Sanderson:** This is about our workaround language tags in i18n namespace.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** We removed requirements to normalize language tags to lowercase, because it is problematic for many people in i18n community. When creating RDF, we have possibility that 2 processors create different data types.  
… The question is if that is what we intended. To allow 2 diff datatypes by 2 different processors.  

**Ivan Herman:** That would be wrong in terms of RDF.  
… If you have 2 datatypes with different cases, RDF sees those as not equal.  
… Maybe pchampin_ will say I'm wrong...  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I slightly disagree. 2 different URLs may denote different things, but also the same, but this depends on implementation.  
… It's hard to require all impls to support these different i18n datatypes and consider them equal.  
… We could say that they are semantically equivalent.  

**Ivan Herman:** Yes, we can do that. I don't know if we are discussing something that is insignificant.  
… If we do that, and have an implementation that does datatype reasoning, then that impl will likely fall on its face.  
… Datatype reasoning is quite a challenge. Many implementations just check char-by-char.  
… We could say that if you use these datatypes, that you are supposed to lowercase language tags.  
… It's ugly, but I don't see a better choice.  

**Rob Sanderson:** Is there some i18n requirement?  

**Ivan Herman:** No, it's a habit that there is mixing of cases.  
… Usual way is:  

> *Ivan Herman:* the usual way is : en-US and not en-us

**Ivan Herman:** We should not require normalization when using lang tags the old way, but we should when using i18n datatypes.  

**Rob Sanderson:** Is the set of characters that is permissible in URIs and language tags compatible?  

**Ivan Herman:** Just ASCII characters.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** There will be 2 kinds of RDF impls: ones not recognizing our custom IRIs, and those that do.  
… Those that will take into account our custom datatypes, can interpret them as lang tags and do smart things.  
… The roundtripping would be lost when direction is used. I'm still in favour of not normalizing them.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I'm neutral on normalization. We should add a non-normative note in any case.  

**Dave Longley:** Was it a mistake to not normalize language tags when they were invented?  

**Ivan Herman:** Invented by whom?  

**Dave Longley:** Not JSON-LD, but the group that came up with it 30 years ago...  

**Ivan Herman:** We can not change it because it's out there already.  

**Rob Sanderson:** We can fix it for reduced datatype IRI.  

**Dave Longley:** It looks like this grew organically, so the spec was built around it.  
… What we introduce is new, so we can enforce normalization.  
… So we simplify part of the space.  

**Ivan Herman:** I don't disagree.  
… How important is it to roundtrip on such a detail?  
… Because that is why we are discussing this.  
… I don't think it's important.  
… So I would normalize it.  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* From RDF Concepts: "A literal is a language-tagged string if the third element is present. Lexical representations of language tags may be converted to lower case. The value space of language tags is always in lower case."

**Gregg Kellogg:** We did change the language of JSON-LD, which always normalized language tags, which was over-strict.  
… RDF spec says that language tags *may* be lowercased.  
… We are talking here about special case: roundtripping.  
… It's a minor thing what we are going to do.  
… I would support that we change the language in toRdf, that language tags be normalized in compound literals and i18n.  

**Rob Sanderson:** We ran into this in practice when having to do case-insensitive language tag comparison.  

> **Proposed resolution: In toRDF recommend normalization of language tag based URIs** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +0

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +0

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: In toRDF recommend normalization of language tag based URIs***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

> **Proposed resolution: ... also compound literal form** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: ... also compound literal form***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

#### 3.2. Boolean comparison issue (JSON Datatype)
{: #section3-2}

**link:** [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/323)](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/323))  

**Rob Sanderson:** Last week, we concluded that we should fix 323.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** The value of the JSON value type should not be a structured representation of JS object, but canonical form of JSON representation.  
… We have our own canonic process. But this was marked as non-normative. I think this should be marked as normative.  

**Ivan Herman:** Yes, I agree.  
… You avoided canonicalization term, which is a good idea.  

**pr:** [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/325](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/325)  
… There is a small part that needs to be changed.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I did change it.  

**Ivan Herman:** I may have missed something then.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** Currently lexical value should be re-serialized.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Reason it was non-normative was JSC was still in draft.  
… Object keys are ordered by converting them by UTF16 may be controversial.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** We should update the API doc as a copy of the normalization text in processing document.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** We should also change the test descriptions.  

**Ivan Herman:** Also the API doc currently repeats the canonicalization steps, and we should refer to the proper place.  
… We will get a similar situation as with language tags, where we can not fully guarantee roundtripping.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Yes. Ordering of keys in our case is just lexicographical, while JSC is much more detailed with localization concerns.  

> **Proposed resolution: Update api document to be in line with syntax for json datatype, test descriptions, and "canonicalization" algorithm** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

**Gregg Kellogg:** Not including that in syntax doc would not be sufficient for interoperation.  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1 (modulo key ordering)

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

**Gregg Kellogg:** modulo key ordering  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 modulo gregg's comments

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1 modulo gregg's comments

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> ***Resolution #4: Update api document to be in line with syntax for json datatype, test descriptions, and "canonicalization" algorithm (modulo key ordering)***
{: #resolution4 .resolution}

> *Dave Longley:* (it is important to match JCS ... and hope it sticks in the future)

#### 3.3. Confusing context URL handling,
{: #section3-3}

**link:** [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/265](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/265)  

**Rob Sanderson:** We concluded that the change would be good, but was too big.  
… Now that we dropped out of CR, we should discuss whether the change is useful.  
… Should we do that now?  
… gkellogg, will this be an editorial change that doesn't need a resolution?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** It will change the algorithm signature.  
… We need a way to keep track of the resolved context URL to use when resolving future context URLs.  
… It impacts the places that call it to pass a value around.  

**Ivan Herman:** If you change the parameters, how many implementations will have to change?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** We don't change tests. Implementations do not have to follow the algorithm exactly.  

**Ivan Herman:** Does anyone else next to kasei follow the spec exactly?  
… Do we know if we are affecting anyone else?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** This was behaviour that was expected in 1.0.  

**Ivan Herman:** If you do this change, do the implementation of Ruben and Dave have to change.  

**Ruben Taelman:** I don't follow the algorithm.  

> *Dave Longley:* agree with gregg, i don't think we need to change anything in JS

> **Proposed resolution: Add text to api to clarify the need for tracking of base IRIs during context processing** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> ***Resolution #5: Add text to api to clarify the need for tracking of base IRIs during context processing***
{: #resolution5 .resolution}

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

### 4. New CR timing
{: #section4}

**Gregg Kellogg:** Probably would take 4 weeks from last week.  
… kasei working on framing should give us enough time.  
… So around February 14th, or 21st.  

**Ivan Herman:** We have to go through the whole charade, so it will take a while.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** So we start of 17th.  

**Ivan Herman:** Ok, so that would mean the end of February.  

**Harold Solbrig:** Is there any wording that I can say that even though JSON-LD is not a CR yet, I can use it safely without things changing?  

**Ivan Herman:** You can say that there is no intention to change the technical content, but we may find bugs in the spec.  

**Harold Solbrig:** Ok, that's what I need.  

**Rob Sanderson:** For framing, I will require kasei's time during office hours, after compaction.  
… So he will probably not do an implementation, just a review.  

### 5. Adjourn
{: #section5}

---


### 6. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Approve Minutes of previous call: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-17-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-17-json-ld)
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): In toRDF recommend normalization of language tag based URIs
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): ... also compound literal form
* [Resolution #4](#resolution4): Update api document to be in line with syntax for json datatype, test descriptions, and "canonicalization" algorithm (modulo key ordering)
* [Resolution #5](#resolution5): Add text to api to clarify the need for tracking of base IRIs during context processing

### 7. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): create issue for ATRISK of entities within HTML script elements. (Gregg Kellogg)